From December 31 2024, Australian organisations are required to report on the climate change risks and opportunities across the value chain of their organisation.  This is described in the Australian Sustainability Reporting Standard AASB S2: https://standards.aasb.gov.au/aasb-s2-sep-2024

"This Standard, when applicable, requires an entity to disclose information about climate-related risks and opportunities that could reasonably be expected to affect the entity’s cash flows, its access to finance or cost of capital over the short, medium or long term."

The standard contains three groups for reporting:
Scope 1: Greenhouse gas emissions directly generated by the organisation.
Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the generation of power consumed by the organisation.
Scope 3: Other greenhouse gas emissions across the value chain of the organisation.

Reporting of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions resulting from employee commuting is covered under Scope 3.  

Employee commuting avoided due to WFH creates big win for organisations through the avoidance of greenhouse gas emissions.  This benefit increases with distance travelled, and can be substantial where the employee commutes from outside of the metropolitan area.  A WFH log is also required by the employee in order to claim WFH tax benefits (two birds with one stone).

For example ...

Closing question ...

For Newcastle area
* There are many people who live in Newcastle and work in Sydney or Canberra (Professions such as IT, Legal, Consulting, etc).  They typically commute and stay in serviced appartments or the like for part of the week and WFH from the remainder.
* Conversely there are many organisations in Newcastle requiring access to emerging technical skills (not locally available) in order to expand and modernise (for example Cloud or AI skills).  Remote work options would improve the availability of high quality candidates for these roles.
* Densification will result in an increase in population, however an increase in local jobs and industry would be required to support these people.  Remote work would buffer this capability until local industry catches up, and also allow for development of Newcastle as an incubator of specialised skills.

